Rocm cmake modules
==================

ROCM cmake modules provides cmake modules for common build tasks needed for the ROCM software stack. To install from source, just run:

```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
cmake --build . --target install
```

ROCMCreatePackage
=================

rocm_create_package
-------------------

    rocm_create_package(
        NAME <name>
        [DESCRIPTION <description>]
        [SECTION <section>]
        [MAINTAINER <maintainer>]
        [LDCONFIG_DIR <lib-directory>]
        [PREFIX <path>]
        [LDCONFIG]
        [HEADER_ONLY]
    )

Sets up CPack packaging. If the `devel` component is used, or if any components are set up using `rocm_package_setup_component`, these packages will be configured as well.

rocm_package_add_rpm_dependencies
---------------------------------

    rocm_package_add_rpm_dependencies(
        [DEPENDS <rpm-dep>...]
        [STATIC_DEPENDS <rpm-static-dep>...]
        [SHARED_DEPENDS <rpm-shared-dep>...]
        [COMPONENT <component>]
    )

Adds the listed `<rpm-dep>`s to the RPM package for the associated `<component>`, or for the package overall if a `<component>` is not given.

rocm_package_add_deb_dependencies
---------------------------------

    rocm_package_add_deb_dependencies(
        [DEPENDS <deb-dep>...]
        [STATIC_DEPENDS <deb-static-dep>...]
        [SHARED_DEPENDS <deb-shared-dep>...]
        [COMPONENT <component>]
    )

Adds the listed `<deb-dep>`s to the DEB package for the associated `<component>`, or for the package overall if a `<component>` is not given. NOTE: this dependency should be given in the RPM style (e.g. `foo >= 1.0`), NOT in the Debian style (e.g. `foo (>= 1.0)`).

rocm_package_add_dependencies
-----------------------------

    rocm_package_add_rpm_dependencies(
        [DEPENDS <common-dep>...]
        [STATIC_DEPENDS <common-static-dep>...]
        [SHARED_DEPENDS <common-shared-dep>...]
        [COMPONENT <component>]

Adds the listed `<common-dep>`s to both the DEB and RPM packages for the associated `<component>`, or for the package overall if a `<component>` is not given. NOTE: this dependency should be given in the RPM style (e.g. `foo >= 1.0`), NOT in the Debian style (e.g. `foo (>= 1.0)`)

rocm_package_setup_component
----------------------------

    rocm_package_setup_component(<component-name>
        [PACKAGE_NAME <package-name>]
        [LIBRARY_NAME <library-name>]
        [PARENT <parent>]
        [DEPENDS
            [RUNTIME]
            [COMMON <common-dep>...]
            [COMPONENT <component-dep>...]
            [DEBIAN <deb-dep>...]
            [RPM <rpm-dep>...]]
    )

Sets up the named component to generate a package named `<library_name>-<package_name>`. `<library_name>` defaults to `PROJECT_NAME`, and `<package_name>` defaults to `<component_name>`. The `<parent>` argument may be the name of another packaged component, whose package will be set to depend on the package generated by this component. The `COMMON`, `DEBIAN`, and `RPM` dependencies should all be listed in RPM style, e.g. `foo >= 1.0`. The `COMPONENT` dependencies should be the names of any other components whose resultant package is a dependency for this component's package.


ROCMInstallSymlinks
===================

rocm_install_symlink_subdir
---------------------------

    rocm_install_symlink_subdir(<subdir>
        [COMPONENT <component>]
        [NAME_PREFIX <name-prefix>]
    )

Install symlinks which point into the `subdir` directory. These will be installed into the component `<component>`, or into the runtime and development packages by default. If `<name-prefix>` is given, the symlink files will have that prefix.

ROCMInstallTargets
==================

rocm_install
------------

    rocm_install(TARGETS <target>... [...])
    rocm_install({FILES | PROGRAMS} <file>... [...])
    rocm_install(DIRECTORY <dir>... [...])
    rocm_install(SCRIPT <file> [...])
    rocm_install(CODE <code> [...])
    rocm_install(EXPORT <export-name> [...])

Wraps installers to install to the correct component (devel or runtime) unless COMPONENT is specified. The TARGETS signature wraps `rocm_install_targets`, all other signatures wrap `install`.

rocm_install_targets
--------------------

    rocm_install_targets(
        TARGETS <target>...
        [PREFIX <path>]
        [EXPORT <export-file>]
        [INCLUDE <directory>...]
        [COMPONENT <component>]
    )

Install targets into the appropriate directory. Unless COMPONENT is specified, libraries will be installed to the base package and namelinked in the `devel` package, and everything else will be installed to the `devel` package.

rocm_export_targets
-------------------

    rocm_export_targets(
        [NAMESPACE <namespace>]
        [EXPORT <export>]
        [INCLUDE <cmake-file>...]
        [NAME <name>]
        [COMPATIBILITY <compatibility>]
        [PREFIX <prefix>]
        [TARGETS <targets>...]
        [DEPENDS [PACKAGE <package-name>]...]
        [STATIC_DEPENDS [PACKAGE <package-name>]...]
    )

Export the installed targets so they can be consumed with `find_package`.

ROCMPackageConfigHelpers
========================

rocm_configure_package_config_file
----------------------------------

    rocm_configure_package_config_file(<input> <output>
        INSTALL_DESTINATION <path>
        [PATH_VARS <var>...]
        [PREFIX <path>]
    )

Configure the the config file used found be `find_package`.

ROCMSetupVersion
================

rocm_get_version
----------------

    rocm_get_version(<output-variable>
        [VERSION <version>]
        [DIRECTORY <path>]
    )

Get the version of directory using git tags if possible.

rocm_setup_version
------------------

    rocm_setup_version(
        VERSION <version>
        [NO_GIT_TAG_VERSION]
        [PARENT <commit>]
    )

Setup the version for the project. This will try to use git tag to set the version if possible unless `NO_GIT_TAG_VERSION` is passed. The `PARENT` argument can be used to set the commit to start the count of number of commits to the current revision.

ROCMCheckTargetIds
==================

rocm_check_target_ids
---------------------

    rocm_check_target_ids(<output-variable>
        TARGETS <target-id>...
    )

Returns the subset of HIP [target-ids](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangOffloadBundler.html#target-id) supported by the current CXX compiler.

ROCMClients
===========

rocm_package_setup_client_component
---------------------------

    rocm_package_setup_client_component(<component_name>
        [PACKAGE_NAME <package_name>]
        [LIBRARY_NAME <library_name>]
        [DEPENDS 
            [COMMON <common-dep>...]
            [COMPONENT <component-dep>...]
            [DEBIAN <debian-dep>...]
            [RPM <rpm-dep>...]]
    )

A convenience wrapper for `rocm_package_setup_component` that sets the parent to `clients` and adds a dependency on the runtime component if shared libraries were built.

ROCMUtilities
=============

rocm_join_if_set
----------------

    rocm_join_if_set(<glue> <inout_variable> <inputs>...)

Joins the `<inputs>` together with the `<glue>` string, then is appended to `<inout_variable>` with a `<glue>` string between if `<inout_variable>` is set and non-empty, otherwise `<inout_variable>` is set to this `<glue>`d string of `<inputs>`.

rocm_find_program_version
-------------------------

    rocm_find_program_version(<program>
        [QUIET] [REQUIRED]
        [LESS <version>]
        [GREATER <version>]
        [EQUAL <version>]
        [LESS_EQUAL <version>]
        [GREATER_EQUAL <version>]
        [OUTPUT_VARIABLE <output-variable>]
    )

Finds the version of a command/executable which accepts the `--version` flag, and returns this in `<output-variable>` (defaults to `<program>_VERSION`). If any comparison tests are provided, they are all performed (as version comparison tests) and the logical AND of these comparisons is returned in `<output-variable>_OK`.
